---
title: "Research_Proposal"
date: 2022-05-11T15:09:12-04:00
draft: false
---


In a world where technology is consistently growing and getting better, it is more important than ever to protect ourselves from hackers and malware. In a world where information is the key to machine learning, software engineering, and AI development, it is more crucial than ever to defend ourselves from all types of cyberattacks. Every type has its unique way of attacking the user. One such malicious software is known as ransomware. Ransomware's unique trait is that it encrypts files that belong to the user and then holds them for ransom. Someone stole your files. You have to pay a set amount of money to get back your files. Another example of malware is a rootkit in the CS industry. A rootkit is a virus or malware that lives on your system when activated and can grant access to your system. There is much other malware out there, and hackers are always finding new and unique ways of breaking into your system, gathering valuable information, and slowing down your machine. 

Should we be afraid of them then? First, we need to understand the internet and how it functions to answer this question. The internet is a vast network that connects computers all around the world. Through the internet, people can share information, talk to families over long distances, and overall solve problems together. The internet is also a great source of entertainment for most people, and it has become a critical part of daily life for some. 

Similarly, hackers use the internet to spread viruses, gather user data, and commit other cybercrimes. Imagine one day you wake up, and you lose hundreds or thousands of dollars. The scary part is that you don't even know why or how you lost that much money. To better describe the fear of cyberattacks, I want to introduce a game called WatchDogs. WatchDogs is a game about a group of hackers trying to save the world by using different hacking techniques. This information is essential because this game perfectly represents the fear that people may have about hackers and the phrase "cyber attacks." For example, in the first WatchDogs, you can steal money from other people's bank accounts without them knowing. He does that by hacking into the database of significant banks and transferring money out of those accounts.
Your character includes someone's address, full name, occupation, and income. These are just some examples of crimes that hackers could commit. 

If we were to give the internet a color, what would it be? As you can see, the internet is not just black or white. But instead, the color of the internet is a mix of black and white. Gray is the perfect color to describe the internet because the internet is full of people that want to help and people who want to cause trouble. 
  
Fileless malware is a concern because we live in an era where technology is rapidly growing. One day in the far future, we will create natural, artificial intelligence like one that appears in movies that benefit humankind. However, since creating artificial intelligence is impossible in our current generation. We should be focusing our attention on data security and data management. We should focus on data security because data security refers to all types of data in our modern society.

A clear example of this is government databases, which store a user's social security number. Without advanced anti-malware software to defend ourselves against hackers and other types of cyberattacks, our data could be lost. And that could potentially cause substantial economic damage.  

Let's use another example to better show the severity of the situation. Let's say you want to start a company. Your company is doing some business that requires hundreds of employees. The first thing you have to do is gather information about your workers and store them inside a database. In this scenario, let's say your company is very wealthy, and you're not running out of money at the same time. Therefore, it is a perfect environment to work in. With that kind of working condition, there will be many people who want to join your company. 

In this scenario, you have to figure out who is the most fitting to recruit to bring you the most profit. The first thing you have to do is register your potential candidates. You need information such as their IDs, email, home address, etc. Let's say you have successfully found the people you want to hire. Now imagine a scenario where all that information you just gathered is stored in a single database. What would happen if that data were lost or released to the public? That will bring catastrophic damage to your company. Your company which you took years to build, is being destroyed in front of your eyes. In other words, you just lost millions of dollars and years of your life. That would be the best scenario. The worst scenario is that you will be in debt and lose yourself in the process. These types of examples fit when describing the cyber attack. In the background, a hacker is breaking into your database and releasing the information you gathered. These potential damages can be avoided if you have the knowledge and preparation to help you defend yourself against cyber attacks.  

To counteract cyber attacks and hackers, we as a computer science community have developed anti-malware software like Norton and avast to defend ourselves from them. But even software like Norton, Avast, and Windows Defender is not perfect. So I want to create a program that covers their weaknesses and improves overall protection for everyone in the computer science community. 
	
As a community, we have come up with multiple ways of defending ourselves against cyber attacks. With the amount of knowledge we possess about malware and cyber-attacks, it is surprising that invisible malware can still penetrate our systems. Invisible malware, widely known as fileless malware, is a type of virus that lives on your machine's memory. According to the Allegany Library Website, there is little or no information on fileless malware. One possible reason for the lack of information on fileless malware could be because fileless malware has already been solved, and there is nothing more to explore. People already know how this malware works, so there is no need to spend time and resources on general knowledge. The second possible reason could be that we cannot sample the virus due to its unique nature.

Similarly to other malware out there, the fileless malware also has its unique functionality. Fileless malware's unique trait is that the virus will delete itself when it is reset. It may sound like a good thing, but when you think about it. If it deletes itself, we cannot ever find a sample, which will result in us not finding a way to stop it from spreading. But more importantly, it prevents us from coming up with a way to detect these types of malware.  
	
In my opinion, this is what makes fileless malware so captivating. Since there's little or no known information about fileless malware, imagine the fun and the excitement of being the first one to learn about it. That is one part of it; the other part is discovering how fileless malware is ignored by software like Norton, Avast, and Windows Windows defenders. But the main course is to explore the potential problems that fileless malware can bring to our current and future society. One potential problem is that the only known way of getting rid of fileless malware is to reset your system. Unfortunately, that is not an option for companies like Apple, Google, Amazon, and other major companies. Because due to their high level of traffic, they can never reset their systems. If a company like Google were to restart its server, everyone would go crazy. This logic also applies to every other significant company globally that runs an enormous database. 
	
As an ever-growing CS community, we know quite a lot about malware and viruses. But do we understand the making of malware and viruses? As a person who has studied Computer Science for more than three years, I could say that there is a lot of information on malware classification. But there is a surprising amount of knowledge missing regarding malware development. For example, if I create malware from scratch, it could take upwards of a month to a year, depending on its functionality and unique traits. Of course, I am not saying that people should go out and develop new ways to break into someone else's machine. But instead, I want people to know the process of developing malware to develop a better way of defending ourselves from the different types of malware out there. 

With the fileless malware's unique trait in mind, it is no surprise that there is little to no information on how they are written. In order to understand fileless malware at a deeper level, we first need to understand how other types of malware are written and their behaviors so we can find the commonality between them all. Afterward, we may find hints as to how fileless malware is produced. With a deeper understanding of malware generation and manipulation of malware, the gap regarding fileless malware can be significantly reduced. 

To better understand the issue at hand, I have two questions. My first question is related to fileless malware and how it reacts to users, consisting of multiple sub-questions. For this question, I want to answer the following about fileless malware, their origin point, how to generate fileless malware, the typical behavior of fileless malware, and finally, how to remove these kinds of malware from your system. By understanding the origin point of fileless malware, we may gain some clues on how these types of malware are created. This information is crucial because we need a sample to develop a way to detect them.

After finding the origin point, the next step is to generate a sample. The main goal here is to find a sample to study its behavior. It's similar to how people treat lab rats, but instead of rats, it's malware. After generating a sample, the next step is to test it. We could do that by infecting some virtual machines and recording how it affects the system. There are other ways of testing, but this is the easiest way of testing on virtual machines. The next step is to find a way to remove the fileless malware from the VM. A known way could be done by simply restarting the virtual machine. Other methods have not been tested, but my goal is to find an alternative way to remove fileless malware. 

My second question is focused on detection. Which mainly consist of system performance data, machine learning algorithms, and AI development. My original goal was to use performance data to check if anything abnormal happening in your machine. That idea is then evolved into feeding that data into a machine learning algorithm and checking the result. That was a general idea, but there was a catch. How accurate is it? Can it be used mainstream? Will anyone even want to use it? These are the sub-questions that come to mind while thinking about this topic. The resulting answer was not that accurate, no, and no. No one will want to use a complicated and hard to understand. In order to combat that problem, I decided to increase its intelligence and add an AI factor for this project. 

I came up with a simple prototype that contains data and plots them with that in mind. Although PyPieSq may not look like much for now, the scale and complexity will significantly increase. The program will incorporate machine learning and AI, focusing on AI development. Currently, version 1 is complete with minimal functionality and features. Version 2 includes live data input, plotting of data, and overall comparison. The main difference between version 1 and version 2 is live data input. Live data is one of the most crucial steps in the whole project. Without data, nothing could ever get done. There will be no machine learning, no AI, and, most importantly, no project. 

The commonality of both versions of PyPieSq is with the data collected. Both versions use CPU (central processing unit ) and RAM (random access memory). The reason for choosing CPU and RAM instead of temperature is the nature of malware and how they affect the system's performance. Most malware affects the CPU and RAM usage because the person who made them wants to slow down their PC. Therefore, the easiest way is to increase CPU and RAM usage.

When the machine learning aspect of the project is done, I would like to run some experiments that relate to deception and manipulation of data. For instance, how will the AI react when there is a particular jump in data. For instance, CPU usage is generally at 30, but it spikes to 80. Will the AI conclude that you are in danger, or will the AI wait and conform before reporting? What happens when the data becomes corrupted? How easy is it to add data to our system? These are some examples of experiments running in the future when everything is somewhat completed. Currently, I am testing CPU usage and RAM usage to see if my program can tell the difference. After doing some research, a machine learning algorithm helps a program tell the difference between new and old data and, to some extent, dataset outliers. 

Suppose we were to win against hackers and protect ourselves from any malware. However, we need to implement a virus protection system to detect invisible malware. Without it, fileless malware can cause significant damage where servers and machines are constitutionally being run.
